Naruto…
Sometimes your eyes are better than mine.
Sasuke is in the darkness right now…
Go…
You're the only one who can save him.
Yeah…
I know.
The Final Battle
My explanation of what it means to be Hokage
represents my response.
The way Itachi lived led me to this answer.
To protect the Land of Fire and the Leaf Village,
he sacrificed both his clan and himself.
First, I needed to know why.
What is this Land and Village that he would go so far to protect?
The previous Hokage said…
…that the village is a framework
created to stop the slaughter of clans and children…
…a framework that was supposed to lead to peace.
Itachi tried to sustain that peace all by himself.
That's when I finally understood…
Suffering bitter experiences, living in darkness
as a criminal and traitor against Land and Village…
He was a shinobi who took on all hatred
and protected the Land of Fire and the Leaf Village from the shadows.
I feel he was the true Hokage.
It's not the one who is acknowledged by all…
…but the one who accepts all the hatred
that is worthy of that title.
I eventually came to understand Itachi's feelings
for his Land and Village.
My big brother failed in just one aspect.
He let me, his little brother, live.
Unable to hide the truth from me,
he allowed the hatred to disseminate.
However… I'm not like my Big Brother anymore.
I have no father, mother, brother…
not even a single member of my clan.
I am all alone.
I alone can bear the weight of all the hatred now.
And I alone will deal with everything personally.
I will handle all of the shinobi's problems.
I will also dispense all judgment and punishment.
I'll concentrate all hatred upon myself…
…and bring together every single village under my control.
Hatred inside darkness cannot be eliminated.
In which case, I'd rather…
That's right… What the Hokage is to me…
…is someone who will sear away the darkness of all Five Villages
with only his own flame.
And then keeps living by eating the ashes.
And you think everyone will just sit back and say "yes" to that?
I told you already…
I don't care what you or anyone else thinks.
Besides, I have the power now to control it all.
You don't have a clue about how Itachi lived!
There are things you can't do alone!
Just like our battle with Kaguya!
But things don't always go well…
Like with these two stone statues
And us two brothers…
With revolution…
…the villages will no longer have to bear darkness.
And I alone will become the darkness.
I'll dispose of the deep darkness of the past,
and build a pure white future from scratch.
You mean by killing the Tailed Beasts,
and the Five Kage?!
Exactly.
I'm casting off the past.
You're saying you can pretend nothing ever happened with Itachi?
You and Itachi were brothers, and a lot happened between you…
That's what made you who you are today!
Itachi is now in my past.
I'm cutting all past mistakes and doubts here, and starting anew.
Beginning by cutting you down.
Yours will be the last blood I shed,
in the memory of my late brother.
I won't…let you kill me.
I learned everything I know from the people of my past!
Especially about how to figure out what to do after making a mistake.
You said you consider Sasuke a brother.
That's why, Naruto,
I believe you are the only one who can stop Sasuke.
I'm leaving Sasuke to you.
That's why…
I won't let you kill me.
Lord Sage!
It seems it's almost time.
What…
What should I be doing?
Just continue to have faith.
Right now, that is all we can do.
What you do and what transpires, will be up to the two of you.
Sasuke and I aren't real brothers,
but I think we can make peace with each other.
Now that Itachi's gone,
I feel like I'm finally, truly alone.
But with Naruto,
he's the one person I have to cut down.
My version of the Hokage can only come to be
by severing all bonds and being alone.
Why?
Because… Because to me…
…we're really good friends.
…he is still my closest friend.
Naruto… Sasuke… Show me your answer…
Show me the answer for all shinobi!
Inferno Style: Honoikazuchi!
His left eye is…
How the hell do you think you understand?
You've been alone from the start!
It's because I have these ties, that I feel this agony.
How could you possibly understand
what it feels like to lose all that?!
What's the matter?
Are you just going to play defense?
If you keep stalling, you'll die.
I don't wanna kill you!
To me, you've become my closest friend.
You're trying to be alone again and I can't let that happen!
Especially since we both know what that's like…
That's why I can't let you…
…go there… …intentionally!
Quit yapping.
We're both different from
the two boys who fought here long ago…
I know your heart…
…and you, mine…
But you still wanna fight me?
All the more, because it's you.
I have to cut you out of my life.
There's no guarantee that the world
you'll rebuild after severing the past…
…won't end up just like this one, you know.
That's exactly why I'll continue to watch over that world…
So it doesn't.
You're missing the point!
The Five Villages are finally united!
Yeah… But that's only because they found a common enemy.
To defeat the Akatsuki, Madara, and Kaguya…
the Five Villages had no choice but to discard their grudges
and form an alliance in order to survive.
But their mutual foes are now gone.
Eventually, conflicts between each village will begin again.
So this time, you're gonna become the enemy?
And? What'll happen after you're gone?
Finally,
all the dots have connected and formed a straight line.
I started with the Sharingan
and now, I possess the power of the Rinnegan.
Reincarnation, immortality… I have many options.
I'll also be able to control things from the shadows,
instead of through battle.
You're planning to return to that hell,
for the rest of your life, or rather for all eternity?
While being hated by all?
To me, that's what a Hokage ought to be.
That's not even close enough to kill me.
I told you! I'm not trying to kill you!
I'm—!
Enough.
I'm the strongest in this world right now.
So right now, right here…
will be my first step into the shadows.
I can feel it,
how did he gain so much Nature Energy so suddenly?
You finally decided to kill me, huh?
We've taken on a lot of responsibilities
upon our shoulders…
But you see, I wanna fight,
and win against you fair and square!
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: Naruto and Sasuke
…but not against the current you!
NARUTO AND SASUKE Tune in again!